Special methods, also known as magic methods or dunder methods, are special methods that have double
underscores at the beginning and the end of their names.
We have already known some of them.
For example, the init method which helps us initialize the attributes of a new class, or the MRO method
which allows us to know the order in which the searched for inherited methods is organized and others
like bases and subclasses that we have learned when we talked about inheritance.
The point is that there are many more special methods and they are going to be used to create functionality
that cannot be presented in a regular method.
So let's go over to PY charm to learn about some of the most used ones.
Well, we'll get to know special methods by means of the ones we already know, since they are the most
basic ones of Python.
Suppose I have a list that's equal to several ones and I want to know how many there are.
To do so, I'll print the Len method of my list, which is a python built in method.
Since lists are defined in a class called list which we can't see in our code.
So if I print this, I can see that my list contains seven elements.
Seven ones.
But what if I want to apply the Len method to a class created by me?
So let's create a basic class named object.
We won't put anything special, just a pass so as to leave it empty.
So we'll create an instance of this class which will be named my object and we'll be equal to object.
So now imagine we want to print the length of my object.
What do you think will receive here?
So we'll receive seven and an error.
It says object of type object has no Len.
So this cannot be applied.
So another example.
If instead of length of my list, we want to print my list, we can.
But we also want to print my object since it is an object just like my list.
So if we print both of them, we'll be able to see the list because its instances are programmed to
be displayed this way.
And we'll also see my object as a string.
Although it doesn't contain anything, it doesn't do anything yet.
It exists and it is an object located here.
So we received basically a string representing the instance of the object class.
Now I have a question.
How can I use basic functions of Python like Len and print in objects of my own objects I have defined?
The time to use special methods has come.
So look, let's get to work with a new class named C D.
Do you remember this?
Maybe you were very young, but we used to listen to see these.
So we'll create a class in order to create instances of compact disc.
Let's define some attributes through in it, which will be self, a songwriter, a title, and a number
of songs.
Then we have to create a constructor using self songwriter which will be equal to the songwriter that
we pass when creating each instance.
So self title will be equal to the title that we passed when creating the instance and self songs will
be equal to the songs that will pass.
So we have defined the string attributes.
Now we'll create an instance named My Seed, which will be equal to a CD containing the following data.
The songwriter in this case will be Pink Floyd.
The album title will be The Wall, which I advise you to listen to if you haven't.
So this album includes 24 songs, no less.
Okay, we'll print C.D. and will obtain a string just like this one.
But this is not what we want.
We want to print our album and see its information.
In fact, this would have been the result of casting my CD into a string.
And look, we execute it and we get exactly the same.
So in this case, we can use a special method that we will type here.
Let's enter def, underscore, underscore, and here we have STR which brings self along.
This special method helps us as class creators to devise the way in which we want our clustering to
be displayed every time a method requires it.
So we'll put return here so as to get back a string literal reading album colon.
And here we put self dot title, concatenate it with bi and call self dot songwriter.
So this is what we want to be returned in string format every time a method requires it.
So now we'll print my CD in order to get album The World by Pink Floyd.
So we have determined the way in which the string of special method will function every time it is called
by a method.
Now it is showing what we want.
Due to this, strings, dictionaries and more can be printed.
This special method alters the behavior of strings, dictionaries, tuples, among other things, and
establishes the way in which the strings of these objects will be created.
It's exactly what we're doing with the CD object, so we'll do the same with the length.
If we want to print the length of my CD and we execute it.
The software will tell us that there is an error as the object of type C D has no len.
But we can decide what's going to happen using def underscore, underscore and the Len special method.
As a result, we'll be able to decide what will happen when someone asks for the length of CDs.
So let's make it Return Self songs, which contains the number of songs included in the album and consequently
as programmers of the CD class, we're establishing that the length of this object is the number of
songs.
So let's execute this and ask for the length of my CD again.
And we can see that the length is 24.
So we didn't get an error.
And on top of that, the software returned what we wanted to be returned.
That's what's supposed to happen.
As programmers, we have to be able to decide what the software will return.
So one more example.
There's a function named Dell which stands for Delete.
So we can delete any instance we create by using this function.
Let's try to delete my CD.
So we won't see anything displayed if we execute this because we didn't do anything that was supposed
to be displayed.
Nevertheless, my CD doesn't exist anymore.
If we try to print it, we'll get an error since my CV is not defined.
So Dell just deletes things without telling us if the removal was successful.
It'd be better for us if Dell showed something in the console as well.
And to do so, we can alter its behavior through death.
Underscore, underscore, Del.
Now we can make Del delete something and print a message as well.
Something like CD has been deleted.
We can even make it display the title of the album.
It deleted.
So now if we execute this, we'll read.
See, this has been deleted.
Not only does Dell carry out its function, but it also informs the user about it.
So these three examples included three special methods STR, Alien and D.
L hope you were able to understand how we can alter the behavior of objects and classes that we create.
There are more special methods, of course, but we can't demonstrate them all.
Look, every time we call see the DOT, we have numerous special methods available, the ones with underscores.
And I strongly advise you, like I always do, to try them on your own and read the documents.
If you want to create an object that which performs a special function, make sure there's a method
for that in the first place.
So use Google the official documents and our course Q&A section.
These are Python special methods, so that's all for now.
Let's do some activities and you have to answer a questionnaire using all the information I gave you
today.
So you have a chance to design a cool program by yourself and then we'll check it out together.
So see you soon.